37.Inheritance Syntax & Visibility Mode in C++ 

Inheritance Syntax and Visibility mode in C++
Inheritance is a process of inheriting attributes of the base class by a derived class.

Code Snippet 1: Derived Class syntax

As shown in a code snippet 1,

After writing the class keyword we have to write the derived class name and then put a “:” sign.
After “:” sign we have to write the visibility mode and then write the base class name.
Note:

Default visibility mode is private
Public Visibility Mode: Public members of the base class becomes Public members of the derived class
Private Visibility Mode: Public members of the base class become private members of the derived class
Private members are never inherited

Code Snippet 2: Inheritance Example Program

As shown in Code snippet 2,

1st we created an “employee” class which consists of public data member’s integer “id” and float “salary”.
2nd the “employee” class consists of a parameterized constructor that takes an integer “inpid” parameter and assigns its value to the data member “id”. The value of variable “salary” is set to “34”.
3rd the “employee” class also consists of default constructor.
4th we created a “programmer” class that is inheriting “employee” class. The main thing to note here is that the “visibility-mode” is “public”.
5th the “programmer” class consists of public data member’s integer “languageCode”.
6th the “programmer” class consists of a parameterized constructor that takes an integer “inpid” parameter and assigns its value to the data member “id”. The value of variable “languageCode” is set to “9”.
7th “programmer” class consists of a function “getData” which will print the value of the variable “id”.

Code Snippet 3: Main Program

As shown in a code snippet 3,

1st objects “harry” and “rohan” is created of the “employee” data type. Object “harry” is passed with the value “1” and the object “rohan” is passed with the value “2”.
2nd the “salary” of both objects “rohan” and “harry” are printed.
3rd object “skillF” is created of the “programmer” data type. Object “skillF” is passed with the value “10”.
4th the “languageCode” and “id” of both object “skillF” is printed.
5th the function “getData” is called by the “skillF” object. This will print the “id”.