41.Multiple Inheritance Deep Dive with Code Example in C++

Multiple Inheritances in C++
Multiple inheritances are a type of inheritance in which one derived class is inherited with more than one base class. For example, we have three classes “employee”, “assistant” and “programmer”. If the “programmer” class is inherited from the “employee” and “assistant” class which means that the “programmer” class can now implement the functionalities of the “employee” and “assistant” class.

Code Snippet 1: Multiple inheritances syntax

As shown in a code snippet 1,

After writing the class keyword we have to write the derived class name and then put a “:” sign.
After “:” sign we have to write the visibility mode and then write the base class name and again we have to write the visibility mode and write another base class name.

Code Snippet 2: Base Classes

As shown in Code snippet 2,

1st we created a “Base1” class which consists of protected data member integer “base1int”.
2nd the “Base1” class consists of a public function “set_base1int”. This function will set the value of the data member “base1int”.
3rd we created a “Base2” class which consists of protected data member integer “base2int”.
4th the “Base2” class consists of a public function “set_base2int”. This function will set the value of the data member “base2int”.
5th we created a “Base3” class which consists of protected data member integer “base3int”.
2nd the “Base3” class consists of a public function “set_base3int”. This function will set the value of the data member “base3int”.


Code Snippet 3: Derived Class

As shown in a code snippet 3,

1st we created a “Derived” class which is inheriting “Base1”, “Base2”, and “Base3” classes in public mode.
2nd the “Derived” class consists of the public member function “show”.
4th the function “show” will first print the values of “base1int”, “base2int”, and “base3int” individually and then print the sum of all three values.

Code Snippet 4: Main Program

As shown in Code snippet 4,

1st object “harry” is created of the “Derived” data type.
2nd the function “set_base1int” is called by the object “harry” and the value “25” is passed.
3rd the function “set_base2int” is called by the object “harry” and the value “5” is passed.
4th the function “set_base3int” is called by the object “harry” and the value “15” is passed.
4th the function “show” is called by the object “harry”.

