For, While and do-while loops.
 

Loops in C++
Loops are block statements, which keeps on repeatedly executing until a specified condition is met. There are three types of loops in C++

For loop in C++
While loop in C++
Do While in C++
For Loop in C++
For loop help us to run some specific code repeatedly until the specified condition is met.

we created for loop, and inside its condition, there are three statements separated by a semicolon. The 1st statement is called “initialization”, the 2nd statement is called “condition”, and the 3rd statement is called “updation". After that, there is a loop body in which code is written, which needs to be repeated.  Here is how our for loop will be executed:

Initialize integer variable “i” with value “0”
Check the condition if the value of the variable "i” is smaller than “4”
If the condition is true go into loop body and execute the code
Update the value of “i” by one
Keep repeating this step until the condition gets false. 


While Loop in C++
While loop helps us to run some specific code repeatedly until the specified condition is met.


we created a while loop, and inside its condition, there is one statement. The statement is called "condition”. Here is how our while loop will be executed:

Initialize integer variable “i” with value “1”
Check the condition if the value of the variable "i” is smaller or equal to "40."
If the condition is true to go into loop body and execute the code
Update the value of “i” by one
Keep repeating this step until the condition gets false.


Do-While Loop in C++
The do-while loop helps us to run some specific code repeatedly until a specified condition is met.


we created a do-while loop, and the syntax of the do-while loop is like write body with "do” keyword and at the end of body write “while" keyword with the condition. Here is how our do-while loop will be executed:

Initialize integer variable “i” with value “1”
Go into loop body and execute the code
Check the condition if the value of the variable "i" is smaller or equal to "40”
If the condition is true - go into loop body and execute the code
Keep repeating this step until the condition gets false.
























